[docs] Update getting started with local modules (#21892)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/get-started.mdx

description: Learn about getting started with Expo modules API.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon, Grid01Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

**There are two ways to get started with the Expo Modules API:** you can either initialize a new module from scratch or add the Expo Modules API to an existing module. This guide will walk you through creating a new module from scratch, and the [Integrating in an existing library guide](/modules/existing-library) covers the latter case.

The two recommended flows to create a new module with Expo Modules API:

- Add a new module to an existing Expo application, and use it to test and develop your module.
- Create a new module in isolation with a generated example project if you want to reuse it in multiple projects or publish it to npm.

Both of these flows are covered in the next sections.

## Adding a new module to an existing application

<Step label="1">

> ### Creating the local Expo Module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating the local Expo module
```

> Navigate to your project directory (the one that contains the **package.json** file) and run the following command, which is the recommended way to create a local Expo Module:

Reviewer: As per my comment here: https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/21892#discussion_r1154354702

```suggestion
Navigate to your project directory (the one that contains the **package.json** file) and run the following command, which is the recommended way to create a local Expo module:
```

> <Terminal cmd={[`$ npx create-expo-module --local`]} />

Reviewer: Probably should add `@latest` which enforces npm to always use the most recent version, otherwise `npx` may use the package it has installed previously.
```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={[`$ npx create-expo-module@latest --local`]} />
```

It's best to provide a meaningful module name. However, you can accept the default suggestions for the rest of the questions.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Using the module

> If you have an **ios** directory in your project that you created using `expo prebuild`, you must reinstall the pods:

Reviewer: Would be great if `create-expo-module --local` could prompt the user whether he wants us to reinstall pods (one step less in the guide)

<Terminal cmd={[`$ pod install --project-directory=ios`]} />

> **Note:**
> If you're using a development client, you need to rebuild your development client any time you want to use new native code.

Now, import the module in your application:

```js
import { hello } from 'my-module';
```

To run your app locally, run the `prebuild` command and then compile the app:

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo prebuild --clean && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Re-generate the native project directories from scratch',
    '$ npx expo prebuild --clean',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

> Congratulations! You have created a local Expo Module. You can now start working on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have created a local Expo module. You can now start working on it.
```

#### Android

If you have an `android` directory in your project that you created using `expo prebuild`, you can open the directory in Android Studio.

You can always just edit the files in the `modules/my-module/android/src/main/java/expo/modules/mymodule/` directory directly in your favorite text editor.

Change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return "Hello world! 🌎🍎".

Rebuild the app or build a new development client and you should see your change.

#### iOS

Open the files in **modules/my-module/ios/** directory in your favorite code editor to edit them. Alternatively, if you have an **ios** directory in your project that was created using `expo prebuild`, you can use Xcode to edit them.

Now, change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return "Hello world! 🌎🍎".

Rebuild the app or build a new development client and you should see your change. Remember you need to either run `npx expo prebuild` each time you make a native change or you reinstall the pods using `pod install --project-directory="example/ios"` (which should be way faster).

</Step>

> **Note**
>

> > There are also other flows for working on an Expo Module in parallel with your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> There are also other flows for working on an Expo module in parallel with your application.
```

> For example, you can use a monorepo or publish to npm, as described in [How to use a standalone Expo module in your project](/modules/use-standalone-expo-module-in-your-project) guide.

## Creating a new module with an example project

<Step label="1">

> ### Creating the Expo Module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating the Expo module
```

description: Learn about getting started with Expo modules API.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon, Grid01Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

If you need to extend the capabilities of your application, you can install expo packages or third party react native libraries.
Sometimes, this is not enough. You may need to write custom native code to tap into obscure platform APIs or use custom Android or iOS dependencies.

Luckily, Expo has first class support for this in the form of Expo Modules.

> Expo Modules allow you to write native code in a way that feels natural with minimal boilerplate that is also consistent on both platforms.

Reviewer 2: This should be put inside a title called "What are Expo Modules"

> Expo Modules allow you to write native code in a way that feels natural with minimal boilerplate that is also consistent on both platforms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What are Expo Modules

Expo Modules allow you to write native code in a way that feels natural with minimal boilerplate that is also consistent on both platforms.
```

Author: I think the idea was to have a limited introduction in the get started as the overview page seems to be a bit too in detail on the why.

<BoxLink
  title="Expo Modules Overview"
  description="Learn more about the design considerations behind Expo Modules."
  href="./overview"
  Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
/>
<BoxLink
  title="Expo Modules API Reference"
  description="A list of building blocks you can use to create your own Expo Module."
  href="./module-api"
  Icon={Grid01Icon}
/>

> There are two ways to get started with the Expo Module API: you can either initialize a new module from scratch or add the Expo Module API to an existing module. This guide will walk you through creating a new module from scratch, and the [Integrating in an existing library guide](/modules/existing-library) covers the latter case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to get started with the Expo Modules API: initializing a new module from scratch or adding the Expo Modules API to an existing library. This guide walks you through creating a new module from scratch. See [Integrating Expo Modules API in an existing library guide](/modules/existing-library) for the second use case.
```

There is an inconsistency between "Expo Module" and "Expo Modules". I think we should stick with one. In the title we say "Expo Modules", so maybe that's the preference.

Reviewer: Yeah. That's probably obvious, but my suggestion is to use "Expo Modules API" when we're talking about the API in general and "Expo module" or "Expo modules" when we talk about packages using Expo Modules API (or the legacy one).

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification, @tsapeta. Sometimes, things are obvious to us but might not be to the developer reading the doc (and we don't want them to confuse 😅)

> We provide two recommended flows for creating a new Expo Module. You can either:
> 
> - add a new module to an existing Expo application and use it to test and develop your module
> - create a new module in isolation with a generated example project, if you want to reuse it in multiple projects or publish to npm.
> 
> The next two sections describe the two flows in detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The two recommended flows to create a new module with Expo Modules API:

- Add a new module to an existing Expo application, and use it to test and develop your module.
- Create a new module in isolation with a generated example project if you want to reuse it in multiple projects or publish it to npm.

Both of these flows are covered in the next sections.
```

- I'd suggest adding link to the sections for each bullet point
- Switching between "you" and "we" is confusing. Generally, we should prefer writing in second person(https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#write-in-the-second-person) as per our writing style guide.

## Adding a new module to an existing application

> <Step label="1">
> ### Creating the local Expo Module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Step label="1">

### Creating the local Expo Module
```

iirc, there should be an extra line between section title and opening and closing `<Step>` components otherwise it might not render correctly.

> The recommended way to create a local Expo Module is with the `create-expo-module --local` command.
> 
> Navigate to your project directory (the one that contains the `package.json` file) and run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to your project directory (the one that contains the **package.json** file) and run the following command, which is the recommended way to create a local Expo Module:
```

- Filenames are bold text as per the writing styelguide (https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#filenames-as-bold-text)
- I'd suggest preferring conciseness and mentioning the command only once.

<Terminal cmd={[`$ npx create-expo-module --local`]} />

> It's best to provide a meaningful module name, but you can accept the default suggestions for the rest of the questions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's best to provide a meaningful module name. However, you can accept the default suggestions for the rest of the questions.
```

> </Step>
> <Step label="2">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
</Step>

<Step label="2">

```

### Using the module

> If you have an `ios` folder in your project that you created using `expo prebuild`, you need to reinstall the pods using `pod install --project-directory=ios`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have an **ios** directory in your project that you created using `expo prebuild`, you must reinstall the pods:

<Terminal cmd={[`$ pod install --project-directory=ios`]} />
```
- directory is the convention we're following all over docs (instead of folders)

> If you're using a development client, you need to rebuild your development client any time you want to use new native code.

Reviewer 2: I think this should also be a note.

> You can now import the module in your application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, import the module in your application:
```

In which file is shall I import the module?

```js
import { hello } from 'my-module';
```

To run your app locally, run the `prebuild` command and then compile the app.

<Terminal
  cmdCopy="npx expo prebuild --clean && npx expo run:ios"
  cmd={[
    '# Re-generate the native project directories from scratch',
    '$ npx expo prebuild --clean',
    '# Run the example app on Android',
    '$ npx expo run:android',
    '# Run the example app on iOS',
    '$ npx expo run:ios',
  ]}
/>

Congratulations! You have created a local Expo Module. You can now start working on it.

</Step>
<Step label="3">

> ### Making a change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Editing the module
```

#### Android

If you have an `android` directory in your project that you created using `expo prebuild`, you can open the directory in Android Studio.

You can always just edit the files in the `modules/my-module/android/src/main/java/expo/modules/mymodule/` directory directly in your favourite text editor.

Change the hello method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return "Hello world! 🌎🍎".

Rebuild the app or build a new development client and you should see your change.

#### iOS

> If you have an `ios` directory in your project that you created using `expo prebuild`, you can open the directory in Xcode.
> 
> You can always just edit the files in the `modules/my-module/ios/` directory directly in your favourite text editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the files in **modules/my-module/ios/** directory in your favorite code editor to edit them. Alternatively, if you have an **ios** directory in your project that was created using `expo prebuild`, you can use Xcode to edit them.
```

> Change the hello method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return "Hello world! 🌎🍎".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return "Hello world! 🌎🍎".
```

Rebuild the app or build a new development client and you should see your change. Remember you need to either run `npx expo prebuild` each time you make a native change or you reinstall the pods using `pod install --project-directory="example/ios"` (which should be way faster).

</Step>

> **Note**
>
> There are also other flows for working on an Expo Module in parallel with your application.

> > For example, you can use a monorepo or publish to npm, as described by the [How to use a standalone Expo module in your project](./use-standalone-expo-module-in-your-project) guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> For example, you can use a monorepo or publish to npm, as described in [How to use a standalone Expo module in your project](/modules/use-standalone-expo-module-in-your-project) guide.
```

## Creating a new module with an example project

> <Step label="1">
> ### Creating the Expo Module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Step label="1">

### Creating the Expo Module
```

> **Note:**
> If you're using a development client, you need to rebuild your development client any time you want to use new native code.

> **Warning:**

> > If you override the `paths` property in `tsconfig.json` or are using expo version below `48.0.11`, you need to include the following wildcard in [the paths config](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#paths).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you override the `paths` property in `tsconfig.json` or are using Expo SDK version below `48.0.11`, you need to include the following wildcard in [the paths config](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#paths).
```

One suggestion to either callout Expo SDK or go with package name with inline syntax highlight: `expo`
